uservoice: true

# How to use the Image Resizer without ASP.NET

It's just as easy. You do have to be running Windows and IIS, though. If you are not, remember you can set up a separate port or subdomain dedicated to images, separate from your application, using IIS.

1. Create a folder in the site named 'bin'. [Download](/download/) ImageResizer.dll and paste it into the 'bin' folder, along with any plugins you wish to use.
2. Create a new file named "Web.config" in the root of the site. Paste the following into it.
	
		<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
		<configuration>
		  <configSections>
		    <section name="resizer" type="ImageResizer.ResizerSection,ImageResizer" />
		  </configSections>=
		  <resizer>
		    <!-- Unless you (a) use Integrated mode, or (b) map all reqeusts to ASP.NET, 
		         you'll need to add .ashx to your image URLs: image.jpg.ashx?width=200&height=20 
		         Optional - this is the default setting -->
		    <pipeline fakeExtensions=".ashx" />
		    <plugins>
		      <!-- <add name="DiskCache" /> -->
		      <!-- <add name="PrettyGifs" /> -->
		    </plugins>	
		  </resizer>
		  <system.web>
		    <httpModules>
		      <!-- This is for IIS5, IIS6, and IIS7 Classic, and Cassini/VS Web Server-->
		      <add name="ImageResizingModule" type="ImageResizer.InterceptModule"/>
		    </httpModules>
		  </system.web>
		  <system.webServer>
		    <validation validateIntegratedModeConfiguration="false"/>
		    <modules>
		      <!-- This is for IIS7+ Integrated mode -->
		      <add name="ImageResizingModule" type="ImageResizer.InterceptModule"/>
		    </modules>
		  </system.webServer>
		</configuration>
	

3. You're done! Visit /resizer.debug.ashx to verify everything is working. If you need help, [just ask](/support)!


## But I want to use the code API, not the awesome URL syntax!

Ok, you can do that also. 

You'll need to use the COM API, and if a copy of the DLLs isn't in the same directory with the script, you may need to use the 'registerdll.bat' scripting included in the "Samples/ScriptAccess" folder of the download.

### JScript example

	//The first step is to create a configuration object (where you register plugins, configure stuff, etc.)
	var c = new ActiveXObject("ImageResizer.Configuration.Config");

	//This is how you install a plugin
	var p = new ActiveXObject("ImageResizer.Plugins.PrettyGifs.PrettyGifs");
	p.Install(c);

	//This is how you generate an image
	c.BuildImage("..\\Images\\quality-original.jpg","grass.gif", "rotate=3&width=600&format=gif&colors=128");

	// You can even get diagnostics output if something's not working
	// c.WriteDiagnosticsTo("advancedScript-1.txt");

	//You can create different configurations
	var c2 = new ActiveXObject("ImageResizer.Configuration.Config");

	//And use them separately
	c2.BuildImage("..\\Images\\quality-original.jpg","grass-ugly.gif", "rotate=3&width=600&format=gif");

	//c2.WriteDiagnosticsTo("advancedScript-2.txt");

### VBScript example

	Set c = CreateObject("ImageResizer.Configuration.Config")

	c.BuildImage "..\\Images\\tractor.jpg", "tractor-rotated.jpg", "rotate=45"



