title: Resizer Enterprise License

# Resizer Enterprise license

The [paid plugin bundles](/plugins) can be [purchased](/plugins) under this license. An enterprise license for a bundle costs <span class="price">$249</span>.

## License summary

This license allows:

 * Usage
 * Modification
 * Integration
 * Redistribution as part of a larger project.
 * Sub-licensing under a license compatible with the [Professional Client license][proclient].


## License terms

Copyright (c) 2012 Nathanael Jones

This license is to a Business entity. For personal or freelancer use, see the [Professional license][pro]

All employees and contract workers of the Business are granted the following rights:

 * Unlimited usage. Usage is permitted on an unlimited number of physical or virtual machines operated and either owned, rented, or licensed by the Business or employee. For example, this includes qualifying shared hosting plans, EC2 instances, dedicated co-located servers, development machines, or test servers. **Usage means use, not installation!**. This does not grant a hosting provider license to install the software for use by all customers, nor provide the ability to *resell* usage of the software (I.E, a SaaS offering). Custom contracts for SaaS offerings, hosting providers, and CMSes are available, however - just email support@imageresizing.net.
 * Unlimited modification
 * Unlimited integration with an unlimited number of projects
 * Unlimited redistribution under the [Professional Client license][proclient].
 * Sub-licensing under a license compatible with the [Professional Client license][proclient].

Subject to the following restrictions:

 * Redistribution is **only permitted as part of a larger project that does not compete with the Software or any products distributed by the the owner of the Software**. The receiving party is licensed the software under the [Professional Client license][proclient].
 * For example, it is permitted to integrate the Software in a project for a client, and the client may use the project on any number of servers. But for the client to integrate the Software with another project themselves, they must buy  a license.
 * A copy of the [Professional Client license][proclient] must be included with the Software when it is distributed externally.
 * When redistributing a modified copy of the Software, a notice that the Software has been modified must be included.
 * This license cannot be transferred.
 * This license is only valid for current employees or contract workers of the business.

Suggestions:

 * It is suggested, but not required, that redistributed changes be submitted to the the owner of the Software for code review. Without code review, the owner of the Software cannot support modified versions of the Software.

 * It is suggested, but not required, that a description of the changes made to the Software be included when the Software is redistributed.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

[freedom]: /licenses/freedom  "Resizer Freedom License"
[trial]: /licenses/trial  "Resizer Trial License"
[pro]: /licenses/pro  "Resizer Professional License"
[proclient]: /licenses/proclient  "Resizer Professional Client License"
[enterprise]: /licenses/enterprise  "Resizer Enterprise License"
