# Resizer Professional license

This license can be purchased for any plugin not available under the Freedom license or another open-source license.

## License summary

This license grants an individual these rights:

 * Usage
 * Modification
 * Integration
 * Redistribution
 * Sub-licensing

## License terms

Copyright (c) 2011 Nathanael Jones

This license is to a individual, not a business entity.  For a business-wide license, upgrade to the [Enterprise license][enterprise].
The licensee may may grant his employing business or client a ["Professional Client" license][proclient]. 

This license grants the purchaser of the software the following rights:

 * Unlimited usage. Usage is permitted on an unlimited number of physical or virtual machines operated and either owned, rented, or licensed by the license holder. For example, this includes qualifying shared hosting plans, EC2 instances, dedicated co-located servers, development machines, or test servers.
 * Unlimited modification
 * Unlimited integration with an unlimited number of projects
 * Unlimited redistribution under the [Professional Client license][proclient].
 * Sub-licensing under a license compatible with the [Professional Client license][proclient].

Subject to the following restrictions:

  * Redistribution is **only permitted as part of a larger project that does not compete with the Software or any products distributed by the the owner of the Software**. The receiving party is licensed the software under the [Professional Client license][proclient].
  * * For example, it is permitted to integrate the Software in a project for a client, and the client may use the project on any number of servers. But for the client to integrate the Software with another project themselves, they must buy  a license.
  * A copy of the [Professional Client license][proclient] must be included with the Software when it is distributed.
  * When redistributing a modified copy of the Software, a notice that the Software has been modified must be included.
  * This license cannot be transferred.

Suggestions:

 * It is suggested, but not required, that redistributed changes be submitted to the the owner of the Software for code review. Without code review, the owner of the Software cannot support modified versions of the Software.

 * It is suggested, but not required, that a description of the changes made to the Software be included when the Software is redistributed.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

[freedom]: /licenses/freedom  "Resizer Freedom License"
[trial]: /licenses/trial  "Resizer Trial License"
[pro]: /licenses/pro  "Resizer Professional License"
[proclient]: /licenses/proclient  "Resizer Professional Client License"
[enterprise]: /licenses/enterprise  "Resizer Enterprise License"