#Professional Client license

##License summary

The holder of a [Pro][pro] or [Enterprise][enterprise] license may grant a client this license to a paying Client, which allows the Client to use the Software as part of a *larger* piece of software.

This permits a developer or business to integrate the Software on behalf of a Client, without the need for the client to purchase an additional license. The developer may provide both source code and binaries to the Client.

The Provider must include [a plain-text copy of this license](/attachments/client-license.txt) with the Project provided to the client, and should also communicate to the client the restrictions inherent in this license.

This license is very restrictive, but the Client can always purchase a full license at http://imageresizing.net/ for a very reasonable fee if the Client needs to perform in-house development with the Software.

##License Terms

A holder of a [Professional][pro]/[Enterprise][enterprise] license (the Provider) may grant another individual/business (the Client) the Professional Client license, which allows the Client to use the Software as part of a larger piece of software (the Project) provided by the Provider. This license is only valid if the Project does not compete with any previously existing product offerings of the original author of the Software (see [the pro license for details][pro]).

The "Software" is the plugin(s) which are being sub-licensed by a Provider to a Client.

The "Client" may not be anonymous to the Provider - their must exist proof that the Client has purchased the Project from the Provider as part of a bespoke (custom software) contract.

The Client is granted the following rights:

 * Usage on an unlimited number of virtual or physical machines machines operated and either owned, rented, or licensed by the license holder. For example, this includes qualifying shared hosting plans, EC2 instances, dedicated co-located servers, development machines, or test servers. **Usage means use, not installation!**. This does not grant a hosting provider license to install the software for use by all customers, nor provide the ability to *resell* usage of the software (I.E, a SaaS offering). Custom contracts for SaaS offerings, hosting providers, and CMSes are available, however - just email support@imageresizing.net.
 * Modification of configuration settings related to the Software.

The Client is prohibited from:

 * Using the Software except as part the Project provided by the Provider.
 * Modifying the way in which the Software is integrated with the Project.
 * Using or integrating the Software with another project or web site.
 * Extracting the Software from the Project.
 * Redistributing the Software.
 * Modifying the Software.

All of the above restrictions are lifted with a Professional or Enterprise license, which can be purchased for a reasonable fee.
If the Client purchases a Professional or Enterprise license, they will be subject to those terms instead, and this license will become null and void.

All rights are reserved unless explicitly specified. This license is only valid when and if the Provider holds a valid, qualifying license for *all* plugins provided to the Client.

Limitation of liability

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

[freedom]: /licenses/freedom  "Resizer Freedom License"
[trial]: /licenses/trial  "Resizer Trial License"
[pro]: /licenses/pro  "Resizer Professional License"
[proclient]: /licenses/proclient  "Resizer Professional Client License"
[enterprise]: /licenses/enterprise  "Resizer Enterprise License"