#Resizer Trial

Used by trial versions of some plugins.

##License summary

Permits use only for development and testing purposes.

* Redistribution is permitted in unmodified form, with this license attached.
* No modification
* No sub-licensing
* No use on production servers


##License Terms

Copyright (c) 2011 Nathanael Jones

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to 
redistribute, copy, and use the software, and to permit persons to whom 
the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:


1. The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or portions of the Software.

2. Modification of the software is prohibited.

3. The software may only be used for development and testing purposes. 
Use on production servers is prohibited.

The Professional and Enterprise licenses may be purchased and include 
modification, redistribution, usage, and sub-licensing rights.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

[freedom]: /licenses/freedom  "Resizer Freedom License"
[trial]: /liceses/trial  "Resizer Trial License"
[pro]: /liceses/pro  "Resizer Professional License"
[proclient]: /liceses/proclient  "Resizer Professional Client License"
[enterprise]: /licenses/enterprise  "Resizer Enterprise License"