# Extending the Image Resizer

The goal of the v3 rewrite was to make everything open and extensible. v2 was a monolithic design that, while elegant and very concise, was hard to extend except through source code modification.

V3 introduces the concept of Plugins, as well as adding an array of Events that can be used to customize the behavior of the pipeline.
It also introduces a dedicated configuration section for the Resizer and its plugins, which is freeform and easily queried with a CSS-like syntax through the Config.Current class.

## Plugins can


1.  Modify caching behavior, or implement new kinds of persistent caches (ICache)
2.  Modify http headers
3.  Modify the behavior of image processing (40+ methods to override, with XML documentation).
4.  Implement new visual effects, add watermarks, or new functionality
5.  Perform URL rewriting or query string expansion
6.  Add support for new image formats
7.  Add support for new image output formats (IEncoder)
8.  Apply advanced security rules
9.  Provider virtualized access to images on a abnormal data source (See [Making an IVirtualImageProvider](/docs/virtualimageprovider)).

## Interfaces

* IPlugin - Implement this to allow addition and removal of the plugin via web.config. 
* ICache - Implement this to create an alternate caching system
* IEncoder - Implement this to modify how images are encoded into binary streams. (For example, adding or improving an output format)
* IQuerystringPlugin - Always implement this if your plugin accepts querystring arguments
* IFileExtensionPlugin - Implement this if your plugin adds support for new file types
* IMultiInstancePlugin - Indicates your plugin supports multiple instances
* ISettingsModifier - Allows a plugin to modify settings specified by either the managed or URL API.
* IVirtualImageProvider - Implement to provide virtualized image access or tie into an alternate data store. [more...](/docs/virtualimageprovider)
* IVirtualFile - Your IVirtualImageProvider returns instances of this.
* IVirtualBitmapFile - Implement this if you are building a VirtualPathProvider that produces bitmap files. (No need unless your VPP modifies or generates images)
* IVirtualFileWithModifiedDate - Your VirtualFile instances should implement this so the caching system can detect changes to source files.

## BuilderExtension

Inherit from this class if you want to interact with image layout and rendering. Includes 40+ override-able methods for modifying every part of the processing pipeline.
(You'll also need to implement IPlugin (and possibly IQuerystringPlugin).

* Support new source image formats by overriding PreLoadImage and/or LoadImageFailed
* Add new effects with LayoutEffect and RenderEffect
* Do custom watermarking with RenderOverlays

## Events


Events can be registered through the ImageResizer.Configuration.Config.Current.Pipeline class

All events include comprehensive event information and most include mutable objects that allow behavior to be modified.

### RequestEventHandler OnFirstRequest;

Fired once, on the first PostAuthorizeRequest event.

### RequestEventHandler PostAuthorizeRequestStart;

Fires during the PostAuthorizeRequest phase, prior to any module-specific logic.
Executes for every request to the website. Use only as a last resort. Other events occur only for image requests, and thus have lower overhead.

### UrlRewritingEventHandler Rewrite;

Fired during PostAuthorizeRequest, after ResizeExtension has been removed.
Only fired on requests with extensions that match supported image types. 
You can add additional supported image extensions by registering a plugin that implements IQuerystringPlugin, or you can add an 
extra extension in the URL and remove it here. Example: .psd.jpg</para>

### UrlRewritingEventHandler RewriteDefaults;

Fired during PostAuthorizeRequest, after Rewrite.
Any changes made here (which conflict) will be overwritten by the the current query string values. I.e, this is a good place to specify default settings.
Only fired on accepted image types. Plugins can specify additional image extensions to intercept. Rewrite rules can be used to change extensions.

### UrlRewritingEventHandler PostRewrite;

Fired after all other rewrite events.
Only fired on accepted image types. (see Rewrite)

### UrlAuthorizationEventHandler AuthorizeImage;

Fired after all rewriting should be finished.
Plugins wanting to add additional authorization rules can implement them in a handler,
and set "e.AllowAccess" to false. Plugins can also bypass UrlAuthorization by setting "e.AllowAccess" to true.

### UrlEventHandler ImageMissing;

Fired when an image is missing. Allows redirection to 'fallback' images.

### PreHandleImageEventHandler PreHandleImage;

Fired immediately before the image request is sent off to the caching system for processing.
Allows modification of response headers, caching arguments, and callbacks.

### CacheSelectionHandler SelectCachingSystem;

Allows cache selection to be determined by external code


## Event signature reference

* void RequestEventHandler(IHttpModule sender, HttpContext context);
* void UrlRewritingEventHandler(IHttpModule sender, HttpContext context, IUrlEventArgs e);
* void UrlEventHandler(IHttpModule sender, HttpContext context, IUrlEventArgs e);
* void UrlAuthorizationEventHandler(IHttpModule sender, HttpContext context, IUrlAuthorizationEventArgs e);
* void PreHandleImageEventHandler(IHttpModule sender, HttpContext context, IResponseArgs e);
* void CacheSelectionHandler(object sender, ICacheSelectionEventArgs e);
