Template: plugin_page

# Custom plugin development

I can create custom plugins or enhance an existing plugin to meet your needs for as *little as $300*.

Nearly all plugins funded in this way are integrated into the public version of the ImageResizer. This means (a) **I take care of maintaining them**, (b) you can keep using NuGet packages, and (c) **Others can benefit** from your donation to the community.

I've made it easy for users to develop plugins and I have provided extensive XML documentation, however, **it's always cheaper to have the author write a plugin than to develop it yourself**. 

* I can create a new plugin to meet your requirements for as little as $300.
* I can add new functionality to an existing plugin for as little as $150. 

My normal hourly rate is $95/hr. I'm charging a fraction of that for plugin creation and customization, because it helps the community.

If you can't afford $300, you can either (a) post your plugin/enhancement idea on [the UserVoice site](https://resizer.uservoice.com/forums/108373-image-resizer-v3) and wait for enough votes for it to be implemented, or (b) develop it yourself, and [contribute it back to the community](/docs/contribute). Or not contribute it back, if you want to maintain it yourself ;)


## Payment information

For all jobs under $500, I require payment in full before beginning work. I accept PayPal, credit card, and debit card [through this link](http://nathanaeljones.com/contact/donate).

Unless otherwise specified, the delivery period is two weeks from the day payment clears.

## Licensing 

Custom software developed at the 40% off rate above is released to you under the [Enterprise license](/licenses/enterprise) if the requesting entity is a business, or the [Professional license](/licenses/pro) if the requesting entity is an individual. 

In addition, the software may also be licensed to you (and the public) under the [Freedom license](/licenses/freedom) if the custom software is deemed appropriately generic to be included in the [free plugins](/plugins/free).