Tags: plugin
Bundle: free

# DefaultSettings plugin (V3.1+)

Allows you to specify the default settings to use when certain settings are omitted. Currently supports ScaleMode defaults. May be extended to allow defaults for other settings in the future - please [create an idea](http://resizer.uservoice.com) for additional features you'd like to see.


## Installation

1. Add `<add name="DefaultSettings" />` to the `<plugins />` section.

## Configuration Syntax

	<resizer>
	...
		<defaultsettings explicitSizeScaleMode="DownscaleOnly" 
		                 maxSizeScaleMode="DownscaleOnly" />
	...
	</resizer>

## Configuration reference

* `explicitSizeScaleMode` is the default ScaleMode value to use when `width` and/or `height` are being used
* `maxSizeScaleMode` is the default ScaleMode value to use when `maxwidth` and/or `maxheight` are being used, or when `mode`=`max`.

### Valid ScaleMode values:

* `DownscaleOnly` - The default. Only downsamples images - never enlarges. If an image is smaller than 'width' and 'height', the image coordinates are used instead.
* `UpscaleOnly` - Only upscales (zooms) images - never downsamples except to meet web.config restrictions. If an image is larger than 'width' and 'height', the image coordinates are used instead.
* `Both` -  Upscales and downscales images according to 'width' and 'height', within web.config restrictions.
* `UpscaleCanvas` - When the image is smaller than the requested size, padding is added instead of stretching the image. `anchor` can be used to determine where the padding is added.

