
# FreeImage Plugins

`ImageResizer.Plugins.FreeImage.dll` contains several plugins, all based around the abilities offered by the C/C++ FreeImage library. These plugins are very, very alpha. Use at your own risk. 

Has not been tested with 64-bit operating systems, but should be compatible. Make sure you get the 64-bit version of FreeImage.dll from `Plugins\Libs\FreeImage\x64ReleaseDll\`

## Required files

3 dlls must be placed in the /bin folder of the application for the plugins to work. 

`ImageResizer.Plugins.FreeImage.dll` (dlls\release)
`FreeImageNET.dll` (dlls\release)
`FreeImage.dll` from `Plugins\Libs\FreeImage\x86ReleaseDll\` or `Plugins\Libs\FreeImage\x64ReleaseDll\`  **NOTE - you must copy the right DLL bitness for your system!**

## FreeImageDecoder

Introduces support for RAW & HDR image formats, such as CRW/CR2, NEF, RAF, DNG, MOS, KDC, DCR, etc. Also introduced support for XBM, XPM, TARGA, SGI, Sun RAS, PSD, PICT, PNG, PFM, PBM, PGM, PPM, PCX, MNG, Kodak PhotoCD, KOALA, JPEG-2000, JIF, JNG, IFF, ICO, Raw Fax G3, EXR, DDS, and Dr. Halo CUT files.

Install by adding `<add name="FreeImageDecoder">` to the plugins section of Web.config. And make sure you've added the 3 required dlls.
	
FreeImageDecoder shows a 50%-400% increase in performance over GDI when loading TIFF files. By default, FreeImageDecoder is a fallback, so if you want it to load TIFF files, add &decoder=freeimage to the querystring (v3.1+). It does not support &page= at the moment.
	
## FreeImageEncoder

FreeImageEncoder can encode jpegs 2-3x as fast as GDI can, and offers more encoding options. 

Install by adding `<add name="FreeImageDecoder">` to the plugins section of Web.config. And make sure you've added the 3 required dlls.
	
Use by adding &encoder=freeimage to the URL.

No support for transparency - so only use it on PNG and GIF files that don't need it.

## FreeImageBuilder

Provides an alternate resizing pipeline that never touches GDI. Only supports width/maxwidth/height/maxheight/scale/marginWidth/paddingWidth/fi.scale settings.

Not always faster, as FreeImage is slower at scaling images than GDI, even it if has faster encoding/decoding.

Defaults to box scaling

## FreeImageResizer

Adds support for FreeImage resizing algorithms, which include CatmullRom, Lanczos3, bspline, box, bicubic, and bilinear filters.

Installed by adding `<add name="FreeImageResizer">`
	
Activated by adding &fi.scale=bicubic|bilinear|box|bspline|catmullrom|lanczos command


## License

This set of plugins is part of the [Design](/plugins) bundle, and licensed accordingly.
