Bundle: free

# PdfRenderer (New in V3.1.3)

Note: The PdfRenderer plugin uses the Ghostscript library, **which is under the GPLv3**. As such, any binaries using that library **are also under the GPL v3**. [Click here for the full licensing details on this](/licenses/pdfrenderer). The PdfRenderer plugin was written by Jason Morse. I have reviewed, vetted, and tested his code.

The PdfRenderer plugin renders PDF files to the dimensions specified by the `width` and `height` commands. You may use the `mode` command to pad, crop, stretch, or seam carve the result to match your desired aspect ratio. All resizer commands can be used in combination with the plugin.

To access, add `?format=png` or `format=jpg` after a PDF url. 

Ex. `/docs.pdf?format=png&width=400`.


### Requirements

* .NET 3.5 or higher
* gsdll32.dll or gsdll64.dll in the /bin directory, depending on application bitness. Including both is a good idea, in case you need to change the bitness unexpectedly.

### Configuration

The default render size is 800x600, and the maximum render size is 4000x4000. This may be XML configurable in future releases.

### Syntax

This plugin is activated when any PDF url has one of the [resizer commands](/docs/reference) in the querystring. 

It uses the `width` and `height` commands to optimize the PDF rendering to the desired size. Any image processing commands may be used later, but it is not compatible with the WicBuilder or FreeImageBuilder pipelines. 

Page 1 is rendered by default, but you can choose which page to render with the `&page=X` parameter.

### Performance characteristics

PDF rendering can be an intensive operation, and is highly dependent on the PDF and server. Expect 250 to 1000 milliseconds. This plugin should be combined with the [DiskCache](/plugins/diskcache) plugin for best performance.

## Installation

1. Place gsdll32.dll and gsdll64.dll in the /bin directory. 
2. Add ImageResizer.Plugins.PdfRenderer.dll to your project or run `Install-Package ImageResizer.Plugins.PdfRenderer` in the NuGet package manager.
3. Add `<add name="PdfRenderer" />` inside `<resizer><plugins></plugins></resizer>` in Web.config.

## Where do I get gsdll32 and gsdll64?

The download doesn't include gsdll32 and gsdll64 because they would add 18MB to the download size, and there are new versions on a frequent basis.

The dlls for version 9.04 (Jan 12 2012) can be [downloaded here](http://downloads.imageresizing.net/GhostScript_9_04.zip), but for newer releases you'll have to download and extract the dlls from SourceForge yourself.

To get the very latest version

1. Visit the [Ghostscript Sourceforge page](http://sourceforge.net/projects/ghostscript/)
2. Download both the 32-bit and 64-bit EXE files for the latest release.
3. Download and install [the world's most awesome (de)compression utility (7-Zip)](http://7-zip.org).
4. Right click on each EXE file and extract them to a folder.
5. In each extracted folder, go to `$_OUTDIR\bin` to find `gsdll32.dll` and `gsdll64.dll`
