Date: May 27 2011
Tags: releases
Summary: The last build of the version 2 line.

# Resizer 2.8 - May 27 2011


**Update (Jan 15, 2012): This version has an unpatched memory leak in the GIF and PNG quantization system (Quantizer.cs). The issue has been patched in V3, but V2 has been deprecated for 1 year now. [Upgrading is a simple process](/docs/2to3/), and there are currently no plans to make another maintenance release of V2.**

This is probably the last update the V2 line will receive, as it was superseded by V3 on Apr. 24. Support for 2.8 will be ending June 15, 2011, **3 years** after V2 was first released.

This is a **high-priority update** for all users, as it blocks a potential avenue for a DOS attack and fixes many important bugs. Users of v2.6 can simply replace the ImageResizer.DLL file or the ImageResizer folder of .cs files. See [the changelog](/docs/v2/changelog) if you have an version prior to 2.6, as configuration changes may be required..


It is highly recommended that [you upgrade to V3 instead of V2.8, so you can continue to receive support and patches for the next few years](/docs/2to3/). V3 is designed for better performance, has an easier API, and is far more flexible. 

Existing users can upgrade before June 15 for only $40 using the discount code 60OFFLOYALTY.

<a href="/docs/2to3/" class="awesome green">Upgrade to V3</a>

<a href="http://downloads.imageresizing.net/ImageResizer2.8-full-may-27-2011.zip" class="awesome black">Download V2.8 (3.5MB)</a>

<a href="http://downloads.imageresizing.net/ImageResizer2.8-core-may-27-2011.zip" class="awesome black">Download V2.8 DLL only (100K)</a>


## Changes since v2.6

For changes between this and older versions,  read [the changelog](/docs/v2/changelog).

### Critical bugs

* <span style="color:red;">Fixed serious limitation of ImageResizerMaxWidth/Height settings.</span>  
  These settings only control the size of the photo portion of the image. They do not limit the dimensions of the resulting bitmap. By using paddingWidth=100000, **an attacker could perform a denial-of-service attack against the server to deprive it of RAM.**
  
  **New behavior**: When the final dimensions of an image would exceed 2x the configured max width and height, the request will be ignored with the following message: "The specified image will be more than 2x the permitted size. Request terminated."


### Other bug fixes

* Fixed bug in disk caching system: **Cached files modified by just one day or one hour don't get updated.**
* Fixed bug: Mime-type: image/x-png was being sent instead of image/png. **Causes Chrome to download images instead of displaying them.**
* Fixed bug where **specifying both width and maxheight would cause width to be ignored.**
* Fixed bug: Two simultaneous ImageManager.getBestInstance() calls at app startup could return two different instances.
* Fixed bug causing Dictionary exception on the first request after the app was restarted. Only occurred if two simultaneous requests occurred. Only would happen once per app lifetime. 
* Fixed potential bug: **Extremely** rare Access Denied message occurring on one of 2 simultaneous requests for a newly added source image. No reported occurrences.
* Removed System.Data and System.Xml dependencies.
