Date: July 29 2011
FullFile: http://downloads.imageresizing.net/Resizer3-0-11-full-Jul-28-2011.zip
Tags: releases
Summary: 5 bug fixes and 2 new plugins since alpha 10
Template: release

# Resizer 3.0.11 - July 29 2011

### Changes since [3.0.10 (Jun 16)](/releases/3-alpha-10)

# New features

* Added [SeamCarving](/plugins/seamcarving) plugin, uses C++ CAIR.EXE underneath. Requires full trust.
* Added [RemoteReader](/plugins/remotereader) plugin. Allows images located on external sites/servers to be processed and resized using both the URL and managed APIs.
* ImageResizingGUI and BatchZipper are now 200KB lighter (using Ionc.Ziplib.Reduced version)
* Build() now supports HttpPostedFileBase as a valid source.
* Build() now supports byte[] as a valid source.
* There are now [NuGet packages](/docs/nuget) for 12 of the 14 plugins. AzureReader and Watermark do not yet have NuGet packages.

# Bug fixes

* Fixed bug in StreamUtils - was causing Build() to fail on non-seekable source streams. Added unit test.
* The incorrect file type was being guessed for png and gif images that (a) didn't have a file extension, or (b) were loaded directly from a stream.
	This was also causing AnimatedGif resizing to crash completely. The source was a .NET framework bug:
	`ImageFormat.Gif.Equals(f)` evaluates to `true`, yet 	`ImageFormat.Gif == f` evaluates to `false`. Switched to using .Equals().
* AnimatedGif plugin no longer closes the source stream incorrectly.
* Fixed bug in LoadImage: HttpPostedFileBase stream is returned to its original position after use. 
* Fixed several bugs in Samples\ImageResizerGUI
* Added lots of tests for new functionality

# API additions

* Added URL-safe base 64 encoding and decoding methods to PathUtils.
* Added PolygonMath.ScaleOutside and PolygonPath.getParallelogramSize
* Modified BuilderExtension.PreLoadImage to include path and disposeStream parameters. If you are overriding this method, you will need to change your code.
* LoadImage now supports byte[] arrays.