Date: January 14, 2012
FullFile: http://downloads.imageresizing.net/Resizer3-1-3-full-Jan-14-2012.zip
MinFile: http://downloads.imageresizing.net/Resizer3-1-3-min-Jan-14-2012.zip
Summary: 2 new free plugins, 7 bug fixes
ShortVersion: 3.1.3

# Resizer 3.1.3 - Jan 14 2012

[Read the release notes for v3.1](/releases/3-1-alpha-2) if you're upgrading from 3.0.X. V3.1 included major changes to all plugins and the core, and included a long list of bug fixes. It also introduced 11 new plugins and 5 rewritten ones.

This release fixes some bugs in V3.1, adds some new features, and introduces 2 new plugins, [PdfRenderer](/plugins/pdfrenderer) and [IEPngFix](/plugins/iepngfix). 

## Bug fixes

* Fixed a theoretical memory leak in the PrettyGifs plugin (undisposed Bitmap instance), inside the quantization algorithm I ported many years ago. I believe it's gone undiscovered this long because most GIF images are small, and of insufficient volume to stay ahead of the garbage collector. This bug hasn't been seen in practice; I discovered it during a routine self-code-review of the PrettyGifs source code. You should immediately update to 3.1.3 if you use the PrettyGifs plugin and generate a high volume of GIF or 8-bit PNG images.
* Fixed 'black background when rotated odd angles' bug, which was introduced in version 3.1.2.
* [RemoteReader](/plugins/remotereader) now works properly with the 404Plugin, instead of failing to redirect to the 404 image.
* [S3Reader](/plugins/s3reader) no longer silently fails when there is a problem with the S3 bucket; the error is thrown properly, and is displayed if error display is enabled. Also, bucket names are now case-insensitive and whitespace is ignored.
* [S3Reader](/plugins/s3reader) now supports non-US buckets when useSubdomains="true". The default is false for compatibility with legacy buckets.  
* When an empty stream is passed to the ImageResizer, a more informative message is used in the exception. 
* Null values assigned to querystring keys during the Rewrite event. No longer block default values assigned in the RewriteDefaults event.

## New destination path syntax

Tired of doing path math? You can now do most renaming tasks with a simple syntax instead of writing your own string logic.

Uploading a file with a GUID filename is now much simpler: 

	ImageJob i = new ImageJob(file, "~/uploads/<guid>.<ext>", new ResizeSettings("width=1600"));
	i.CreateParentDirectory = true; //Auto-create the uploads directory.
	i.Build();

### List of variables

* &lt;guid> - lowercase hexadecimal GUID with no dashes or brackets
* &lt;ext> - the correct extension for the file based on how it will be encoded
* &lt;filename> - the original filename (minus folder and extension)
* &lt;path> - the original path (dir and filename) without the original extension.
* &lt;originalext> - the original extension
* &lt;width> - the final width of the written image
* &lt;height> - the final height of the written image
* &lt;settings.*> - any value from the settings used to resize it.

### Filtering (alpha)

You can also filter values

* <filename:A-Za-z0-9_-> - Will keep only alphanumerics, dashes, and underscores from the filename.

This can be useful, as uploaded filenames are usually unacceptable for use on the server, even when combined with a guid.


## New plugins & cool features

* Jason Morse brought us the [PdfRenderer plugin](/plugins/pdfrenderer), which I promptly reviewed and tested, and decided to include immediately due to its great code quality.
* The extremely boring [IEPngFix plugin](/plugins/iepngfix), for those who still care about IE6. 
* It's official; you can now use 'w' and 'h' instead of 'width' and 'height'. 9 less characters to type!
* [Presets plugin](/plugins/presets) now works with managed API as well as URL API. (Managed API does not enforce the OnlyAllowPresets setting). 
* The ImageResizer can now 'auto-create' the parent directory for an image it is writing. Use ImageJob and set `CreateParentDirectory` to true. Nice for uploads.

## Boring new stuff

* Added ResizeSettings.CropXUnits and ResizeSettings.CropYUnits
* Added ResizeSetting constructor that accepts width, height, FitMode, and image format.
* PrettyGifs: Added preservePalette setting.
* ImageJob: added Stream->Stream constructor overload
* ImageHandlerSyntax: Now &mode can be used even in the image handler syntax.
* Diagnostics page now reports on trust level and incompatible assemblies.
* Improved error reporting for plugins that subclass VirtualPathProvider on GoDaddy hosting.
* PathUtils: Added GuessVirtualPath and GenerateImageUrl
* Added Config.Current.Pipeline.ModuleInstalled variable.
* PathUtils.MapPathIfAppRelative, ResolveVariablesInPath, and RemoveNonMatchingChars were added as supporting methods for the dest path syntax.
* You can turn off the new destination path syntax with ImageJob.AllowDestinationPathVariables = false

## Changes that may break your build.

* ImageJob.DisposeSourceStream was renamed to DisposeSourceObject as the previous name was incorrect; both Bitmaps and Streams are disposed by it. It's unlikely many people use this property already as it was only recently introduced.
