Date: January 22, 2012
FullFile: http://downloads.imageresizing.net/Resizer3-1-4-full-Jan-22-2012.zip
MinFile: http://downloads.imageresizing.net/Resizer3-1-4-min-Jan-22-2012.zip
Summary: 5 bug fixes, 2 minor new features
ShortVersion: 3.1.4
Tags: releases
Layout: release
Libs: plusone

# Resizer 3.1.4 - Jan 22 2012

[Read the release notes for v3.1](/releases/3-1-alpha-2) and [V3.1.3](/releases/3-1-3) if you're upgrading from 3.0.X. V3.1 included major changes to all plugins and the core, and included a long list of bug fixes. It also introduced 11 new plugins and 5 rewritten ones. V3.1.3 introduced 2 new plugins and a new path syntax.

This release adds minor new features and fixes some minor bugs. 

## Major bug fixes

* The setter for the ResizeSettings.Height property works again (it was broken in 3.1.3 due to a typo made while adding the w/h syntax).
* ImageBuilder now throws a FileNotFoundException instead of a NullReferenceException when a ASP.NET virtual path like  "~/file.png" doesn't exist.

## Minor new features

* Added ImageJob.CreateDir() alias - a chainable way to set CreateParentDirectory to true.
* Added /resizer.debug warning when running under IIS7 classic mode instead of integrated mode.

## Minor bug fixes

* Now compiles under Visual Studio 11 preview
* Better error messages for empty or read-to-end streams from a (I)VirtualFile or HttpPostedFile source value.
* ImageBuilder.Build, LoadImage, and GetStreamFromSource now throw an ArgumentNullException if parameter 'source' is null.
