Date: Oct 17 2013
FullFile: http://downloads.imageresizing.net/Resizer3-4-0-full-Oct-17-2013.zip
MinFile: http://downloads.imageresizing.net/Resizer3-4-0-min-Oct-17-2013.zip
Summary: 4 new plugins and 11 bug fixes
ShortVersion: 3.4.0

# Resizer 3.4.0 - October 17 2013

## New plugins

* [SourceDiskCache](/plugins/diskcache) enables source file disk caching. 
* [MemCache and OutputMemCache](/plugins/diskcache) enable fixed-size source and output mem caching
* [FFMpegPlugin](/plugins/ffmpeg) enables video thumbnailing

## New guidance

* Use the `Instructions` class instead of `ResizeSettings` whenever possible. `ResizeSettings` will eventually be removed.
* If you use any plugins with native dependencies, call `ImageResizer.Configuration.Config.Current.Plugins.LoadPlugins()` during Application_Start. 
* Don't work directly with Bitmap instances. Methods that return a Bitmap instance are now marked obsolete due to the high probability of memory leaks and encoding bugs in user code.
* Unit tests now require .NET 4.5 to run. The core library and most plugins can still be compilied under Visual Studio 2010 or higher. Run `PM> Update-Package -Reinstall` if your nuget packages aren't automatically restored.
* Does your plugin need to pass additional information back to the ImageJob? Use ImageJob.ResultInfo.

## Bug fixes in core

* Fixed: Combining manual cropping and sourcerotation (`crop=0,10,30,30&srotate=90`) causes distorion. Bug introduced in 3.3.2 with CMYK fix. (#51)
* Fixed: DefaultSettings plugin doesn't work with w/h abbreviation (#45) 
* Fixed: Improved I/O predictability through explicit Flush calls for all I/O operations. (Breaking change in .NET 4 - closing a FileStream does not always flush it).
* Fixed: Instructions.CropRectangle is now spelled correctly. Mispelling will also remain functional until the next major release.

## Known remaining bugs

* AzureReader2 and 404plugin are incompatible
* When using auto-cropping (mode=crop), scale=down may sometimes be ignored, acting as if scale=both was set.
* .NET 4 introduces a FileStream.Flush(true) method to restore the flush-to-disk guarantee. When we move to .NET 4 in the next major release, we will use it.
* Recent windows updates have reduced the performance of System.Drawing, preventing more than one resize operation at a time per process. You can work around this by using the IIS Web Garden feature, or by switching to the [WIC pipeline](/plugins/wic).

## Improvements to core

* You can now access SourceWidth and SourceHeight after running an ImageJob, as well as the ResultFileExtension and ResultMimeType. Only the default pipeline populates this data for now - WIC and FreeImage support comes later.
* You can now read the size of an image without resizing it, using `ImageBuilder.LoadImageInfo(object source, string[] requestedInfo)`.
* An ImageJob can return information instead of a result image now. Added `new ImageJob(source, requestedInfo)`, ImageJob.RequestedInfo, and ImageJob.ResultInfo.
* Introduced IFileSignatureProvider and added default implementation to DefaultEncoder. This allows plugins to provide unified file type detection data.
* The diagnostics page now warns you if precompilation is detected (it breaks data source plugins).
* Dangerous ImageBuilder methods (such as `LoadImage` and `Build(bitmap,settings)`) are now marked as obsolete (see guidance section above)

### Changes to DiskCache plugin

* Fixed rare 500 bug in DiskCache (serving file that is partially flushed to disk). More likely to occur when file system write caching is disabled.
* Fixed: Diskcache blocked any url including the segment /imagecache/, instead of just the root instance. Note that if you have sub-applications, those /imagecache/ folders will be exposed if DiskCache is not installed.

### Changes to SqlReader

* Added support for stored procedures to SqlReader: via QueriesAreStoredProcedures setting.


### Changes to AzureReader2

* Fixed bug with blob redirection when the application is hosted in a virtual folder instead of at the domain root. (Fixes #49)
* Fixed bug causing 400 errors with newer version of Azure library ([thanks to Martin Larsen](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/18791817/receive-400-bad-request-from-image-resizer-request-in-azure))


## Changes to MongoReader

* Updated MongoReader to 1.8 (Thanks @jakenuts!)
* Updated Newtonsoft.Json 

### Changes to Watermark

* Watermark now throws a 500 error instead of a 404 if a watermark image can't be found. (#23)

### Changes to RemoteReader

* Fixed bug in RemoteReader - extension correction was still failing to work (causing PNG images to be rencoded as jpegs when no format was explicitly specified).



 